---
layout: post
title:  "Flashing Ubuntu onto a Microsoft Surface Laptop"
date:   2019-09-13 20:59:34 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
 
Ubuntu is a widely supported open source debian/linux opperating system that has come a long way and continues
to be introduced to many with a continuing growing support.  That being said, it still finds trouble with compatibility,
especially on laptops that were never intended to use the operating system.  Never the less, this article will show you
that should you want to install Ubuntu on your Microsoft Surfact Laptop, you do have the power to do so.

As for a short explanation to this idea, a friend of mine recently had Microsoft tell him that his laptop contained a bad
ssd after it would not boot.  He wasn't going to get it replaced, so I thought I might try to do what I can.  If your 
Microsoft Surface Laptop SSD is pronounced dead, you may want to try this, though Mileage may vary.  Here begins the endevor.

First things first, I flashed a Ubuntu 18.04 Bionic image to a USB.  Next,  I booted the laptop and because the SSD was not being
read correctly, it booted straight to the UEFI (otherwise click the F6 key a few times while powering on).  I then disabled
SecureBoot which would not allow a bootable usb drive to run Ubuntu or any other 3rd party OS.  Next, I enabled booting from
a usb.  I powered off the laptop, inserted the usb, and rebooted.  This is where things get a little inconvenient, which is
pretty much what I was asking for with this project to begin with.  When I powered the laptop on, the keyboard did not work.
I didn't know what to think about that, but I thought I would just install the drivers later, post-installation and just use my
bluetooth keyboard.  

This next part is __important for ssd's that weren't functioning correctly.__  I was not able to install Ubuntu the first time
I tried.  It told me there was an IO Error on the bad drive and I figured that was it for the idea, but I thought I'd reboot and
instead of trying to install it straight away, I did a disk check with the ubuntu utility.  It found errors and told me to restart.
When I did so, I was happy to see that it didn't give me an error trying to install this time and in fact did read the correct
partition size.  I installed Ubuntu and to no surprise, the keyboard did not work still.  So I updated the drivers and reinstalled
the generic keyboard drivers for Ubuntu using this command.

	sudo apt-get install xserver-xorg-input-all
	
This didn't work, and I figured it was a microsoft hardware compatibility issue and Ubuntu didn't have the correct drivers.
I did a bit of digging and as it turns out, other people have had problems with the keyboard working on their Microsoft
laptops.  Upon further digging, I found pre-built kernels and headers for many of the Surface family including the
Microsoft Surface Laptop on a github page [example](https://github.com/jakeday/linux-surface "linux-surface")