---
layout: post
title:  "The Elastic Stack"
date:   2019-10-11 12:59:34 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---
 
Elasticsearch is a wonderful search tool that allows the indexing of data in ways that allow you to interact
with it more dynamically.  This alone is the greatest tool out of the Elastic Stack, but yet it cannot work on it's
own.  There's more modules that The Elastic Team has created in order to acquire the data, index it, and present it
all in a way that works best for the user.  The modules I'm going to discuss here are ElasticSearch, ofcourse, but also
Beats, Logstash, and Kibana.  so let's dive into it.

###### Beats
The first thing to think about is what data we're trying to capture, and where we are trying to capture it.  
This is where beats comes in.  There are many flavors of beats depending on what data you'd like to capture, 
but in a sense, it is the sender of the data to the elasticsearch instance.  For example, if I'm trying to capture
log info on a windows computer (example:[WinLogBeats Config w/ Elasticsearch](https://garrettc777.github.io/jekyll/update/2019/10/04/Blog-5.html),
I'd install the winlogbeats service on the windows computer that the data will be sent from and point it towards
my logstash instance.

###### Logstash
That brings us to logstash.  Logstash is a pipeline that allows you to further refine the logs and index them
in a more specific way that meets your needs depending on how you'd like to query your data.  You *can* always
send the data straight to elasticsearch but it won't be quite as refined and you may not be able to query specific
information.  From here, logstash sends the data to elasticsearch.

###### Elasticsearch
Ah, Elasticsearch, the crown jewel.  Without this, none of the other modules would have much of a meaning.  This
is the main component that allows data to be queriable.  This is what allows such fast search engines these days.
It's not to say Elasticsearch is the only program for this, as there are others that are more frequently used 
such as Splunk.  So now that the data is there, what can you do with it?

###### Kibana
From here, you'll probably want to query and visualize your data so you can turn that data into information and thus
gain knowledge from that information.  That's where Kibana comes in.  Kibana is a great interface that allows you to
control many aspects of Elasticsearch including data health, elastic stack infrastructure configuration, and most 
importantly, the visualization of the data.  You can visualize this data in charts and graphs.

This is a very simple Elastic Stack that can get up and running in no time with a bit of configuration.  This is a
common elastic stack configuration for Security.