---
layout: post
title:  "Temperature Monitoring on a Ubuntu System with Psensor"
date:   2019-12-06 12:59:34 -0700
categories: jekyll update
---

It may seem like a simple thing that should be included in the Ubuntu operating system, but in fact Ubuntu doesn't come with a way to monitor temperatures, and if you're like me, you always
want to have the availability of a temperature monitor at your fingertips.  I have a couple of Ubuntu systems, one being a higher performance gaming tower (Yes even on Ubuntu!) and the other being my 
terrible laptop that has had a history of overheating.  It's easy to see why a temperature monitor would be could in these cases and while Ubuntu doesn't come with a monitor out of the box, it definately
has the tools to create one, so let's get into it.

###Psensor
Psensor is the tool we will be installing onto the ubuntu machine for monitoring the temperature as it is capable of many different actions including:
- Temperature of the motherboard, CPU, GPU, and HDD's.
- CPU fan speed.
- Alarm setting capabilities
- Graphical Representation of temperatures graphs and text.

There are a list of commands that need to be run before installing Psensor.
```
sudo apt install lm-sensors hddtemp
```
This will install a command line utility for hardware monitoring and an aditional program to monitor hard disk temperature.  After, you will need to
detect the hardware sensors of your laptop or computer.
```
sudo sensor-detect
```
Then, for good measure, run this simple command to ensure it worked.
```
sensors
```
After ensuring that you get an output showing your cores, temperatures and such, there's only one thing left to do and that's to install the actual Psensors program.
```
sudo apt install psensors
```
It's a pretty simple execution of commands that ultimately leads to a very important tool.  You can even go a step further and set up alarms to detect when the temperature goes above an unwanted temperature.